Overvew
	Edureka’s Apache Cassandra Certification Training is designed by professionals as per the industry requirements and demands. 
	This Cassandra Certification Training helps you to master the concepts of Apache Cassandra including Cassandra Architecture, its features, 
	Cassandra Data Model, and its Administration. Throughout the Cassandra course, you will learn to install, configure, and monitor Cassandra, 
	along with its integration with other Apache frameworks like Hadoop, Spark, and Kafka.
	
	
1. Introduction to Big Data, and Cassandra
	Goal: 
		In this module you will get a brief introduction of Big Data and how it creates problems for traditional Database Management Systems like RDBMS. 
		You will also learn how Cassandra solves these problems and understand Cassandra’s features.

	Skills:
		Basic concepts of Cassandra

	Objectives:
		At the end of this module, you will be able to
		Explain what is Big Data
		List the Limitations of RDBMS 
		Define NoSQL and it’s Characteristics
		Define CAP Theorem
		Learn Cassandra 
		List the Features of Cassandra
		Get a Tour of Edureka’s VM
	 
	Topics:
		Introduction to Big Data and Problems caused by it
		5V – Volume, Variety, Velocity, Veracity and Value
		Traditional Database Management System
		Limitations of RDMS 
		NOSQL databases
		Common characteristics of NoSQL databases
		CAP theorem
		How Cassandra solves the Limitations?
		History of Cassandra
		Features of Cassandra
		
2. Cassandra Data Model
	Goal: 
		In this module, you will learn about Database Model and similarities between RDBMS and Cassandra Data Model. 
		You will also understand the key Database Elements of Cassandra and learn about the concept of Primary Key.
	
	Skills: 
		Data Modelling in Cassandra
		Data Structure Design
		
	Objectives:
		At the end of this module, you will be able to
		Explain what is Database Modelling and it’s Features
		Describe the Different Types of Data Models
		List the Difference between RDBMS and Cassandra Data Model
		Define Cassandra Data Model
		Explain Cassandra Database Elements
		Implement Keyspace Creation, Updating and Deletion
		Implement Table Creation, Updating and Deletion
	
	Topics: 
		Introduction to Database Model
		Understand the analogy between RDBMS and Cassandra Data Model
		Understand following Database Elements: Cluster, Keyspace, Column Family/Table, Column
		Column Family Options 
		Columns 
		Wide Rows, Skinny Rows 
		Static and dynamic tables
		
3. Cassandra Architecture
	Goal: 
		Gain knowledge of architecting and creating Cassandra Database Systems. In addition, learn about the complex inner workings of Cassandra 
		such as Gossip Protocol, Read Repairs and so on.
		
	Skills: 
		Cassandra Architecture
		
	Objectives: At the end of this module, you will be able to:
		Explain the Architecture of Cassandra
		Describe the Different Layers of Cassandra Architecture
		Learn about Gossip Protocol
		Describe Partitioning and Snitches
		Explain Vnodes and How Read and Write Path works
		Understand Compaction, Anti-Entropy and Tombstone
		Describe Repairs in Cassandra
		Explain Hinted Handoff

	Topics: 
		Cassandra as a Distributed Database
		Key Cassandra Elements
			a. Memtable
			b. Commit log
			c. SSTables
		Replication Factor
		Data Replication in Cassandra
		Gossip protocol – Detecting failures
		Gossip: Uses
		Snitch: Uses
		Data Distribution
		Staged Event-Driven Architecture (SEDA) 
		Managers and Services 
		Virtual Nodes: Write path and Read path
		Consistency level
		Repair
		Incremental repair
		
4. Deep Dive into Cassandra Database
	Goal: 
		In this module you will learn about Keyspace and its attributes in Cassandra. You will also create Keyspace, 
		learn how to create a Table and perform operations like Inserting, Updating and Deleting data from a table while using CQLSH.
	
	Skills: 
		Database Operations
		Table Operations
		
	Objectives: At the end of this module, you will be able to:
		Describe Different Data Types Used in Cassandra
		Explain Collection Types
		Describe What are CRUD Operations
		Implement Insert, Select, Update and Delete of various elements
		Implement Various Functions Used in Cassandra
		Describe Importance of Roles and Indexing 
		Understand tombstones in Cassandra
	
	Topics:
		Replication Factor
		Replication Strategy
		Defining columns and data types
		Defining a partition key
		Recognizing a partition key
		Specifying a descending clustering order
		Updating data
		Tombstones
		Deleting data
		Using TTL
		Updating a TTL
		
5. Node Operations in a Cluster
	Goal: 
		Learn how to add nodes in Cassandra and configure Nodes using “cassandra.yaml” file. 
		Use Nodetool to remove node and restore node back into the service. 
		In addition, by using Nodetool repair command learn the importance of repair and how repair operation functions.
	
	Skills: 
		Node Operations
		
	Objectives: At the end of this module, you will be able to:
		Explain Cassandra Nodes
		Understand Seed Nodes
		Configure Seed Nodes using cassandra.yaml file
		Add/bootstrap a node in a Cluster
		Use Nodetool utility to decommission a node from the cluster
		Remove a Dead Node from a Cluster 
		Describe the need to repair Nodes
		Use Nodetool repair command
	
	Topics:
		Cassandra nodes
		Specifying seed nodes
		Bootstrapping a node
		Adding a node (Commissioning) in Cluster
		Removing (Decommissioning) a node
		Removing a dead node
		Repair
		Read Repair
		What’s new in incremental repair
		Run a Repair Operation
		Cassandra and Spark Implementation

6. Managing and Monitoring the Cluster
	Goal: 
		The key aspects to monitoring Cassandra are resources used by each node, response latencies to requests, 
		requests to offline nodes, and the compaction process. 
		Learn to use various monitoring tools in Cassandra such as Nodetool and JConsole in this module.
		
	Skills: 
		Clustering

	Objectives: At the end of this module, you will be able to:
		Describe the various monitoring tools available 
		Implement nodetool utility to manage a cluster
		Use JConsole to monitor JMX statistics
		Understand OpsCenter tool

	Topics:
		Cassandra monitoring tools
		Logging 
		Tailing 
		Using Nodetool Utility
		Using JConsole
		Learning about OpsCenter
		Runtime Analysis Tools
		
7. Backup & Restore and Performance Tuning
	Goal: 
		In this Module you will learn about the importance of Backup and Restore functions in Cassandra and Create Snapshots in Cassandra. 
		You will learn about Hardware selection and Performance Tuning (Configuring Log Files) in Cassandra. 
		You will also learn about Cassandra integration with various other frameworks.

	Skills: 
		Performance tuning
		Cassandra Design Principals
		Backup and Restoration

	Objectives: At the end of this module, you’ll be able to: 
		Learn backup and restore functionality and its importance
		Create a snapshot using Nodetool utility
		Restore a snapshot
		Understand how to choose the right balance of the following resources: memory, CPU, disks, number of nodes, and network.
		Understand all the logs created by Cassandra 
		Explain the purpose of different log files
		Configure the log files 
		Learn about Performance Tuning 
		Integration with Spark and Kafka

	Topics:
		Creating a Snapshot
		Restoring from a Snapshot
		RAM and CPU recommendations
		Hardware choices
		Selecting storage
		Types of Storage to Avoid
		Cluster connectivity, security and the factors that affect distributed system performance
		End-to-end performance tuning of Cassandra clusters against very large data sets
		Load balance and streams
		
8. Hosting Cassandra Database on Cloud
	Goal: 
		In this Module you will learn about Design, Implementation, and on-going support of Cassandra Operational Data. 
		Finally, you will learn how to Host a Cassandra Database on Cloud.

	Skills:
		Security
		Design Implementation
		On-going support of Cassandra Operational Data

	Objectives: At the end of this module, you’ll be able to: 
		Security 
		Learn about DataStax
		Create an End-to-End Project using Cassandra
		Implement a Cassandra Database on Cloud

	Topics:
		Security
		Ongoing Support of Cassandra Operational Data
		Hosting a Cassandra Database on Cloud